In the previous video, we already write a
script to do network automation using netmiko.
The script is to send show command to the router.
Now In this video, we are going to learn
how to configure the router using netmiko
Let’s see the documentation first, here to
send show command, we can use send_command,
but if we want to send configuration
command, we need to use send_config_set.
What is the differences between this two method?
If we use send_config_set, netmiko will
automatically send configure terminal
and end command.
Here we can see the output, in the
first, we have config term command,
and then in the end, we have end command.
This two command is sent automatically by netmiko.
And then here for the send_config_set method,
the argument is a list, so we can write the
cisco command to do configuration on the list, and
then send it to the router using send_config_set.
Let’s just try it, go to sublime.
Now let’s write a command to create
loopback interface on the router.
List_config, and then let’s
write the cisco command,
Interface loopback0,
Ip address 10.1.1.1 255.255.255.255
Let’s also create loopback1, so here interface
loopback1, ip address 10.1.1.2 255.255.255.255
Now let’s execute this command, output,
conn, this is the connection variable
that we already defined before, and
then send_config_set list_config.
Now let’s print the output.
Save, let’s run the script
Okay here we can see that we configure loopback0
and loopback1, and then print the interface.
And here we can see that now we
have loopback0 and loopback1.
If we see here, we have configure
terminal and end command, once again,
this command is sent to the
router automatically by netmiko.
Okay I think enough for this video,
I hope you understand the differences
between send_command and send_config_set.
Thank you for watching and
see you on the next video.